This email originated outside the University. Check before clicking links or attachments.

hi Brooke,

thanks very much for circulating this very nice paper by David, and
thanks also for inviting us to join from the COSMOS side, greatly
appreciated. I've now had a chance to read through it and I think this
paper is great, I'm also very happy that all of my COSMOS HST ACS F814W
mosaics that I produced were so helpful for this paper, and I'd be very
happy to join among the other coauthors, I provide here my affil/ orcid
info:

\author[0000-0002-6610-2048]{Anton M. Koekemoer}
\affiliation{Space Telescope Science Institute, 3700 San Martin Dr.,
Baltimore, MD 21218, USA}

I'm also sending here a few comments which I hope are useful, as follows.

At the end of section 2.1, it's good to motivate the redshift cut by the
decreasing sensitivity to low surface brightness features, but this is
treated a bit like a sudden change at that redshift, while instead it
would be more of a gradual decrease across the entire redshift range. So
I was wondering whether it might be worth treating this more as a
redshift-dependent bias across the redshift range of the sample (in
addition to motivating the z=1.2 cut). Eg, later on in section 3.4 and
fig 7 you already have a nice discussion about the impact of this
surface brightness effect, but it might be worth adding something a bit
more quantitative, for example presenting the mathematical function for
the redshift-dependent surface brightness dimming, and discussing the
amount (eg in magnitudes) by which the sensitivity decreases over the
redshift range of the sample. This could be helpful in the discussion of
micro-interactions and faint tidal features, especially at different
redshifts.

In section 2.3-2.4, I liked the discussion about defining the mass- and
redshift-matched control galaxy sample, as well as the approach of
incorporating a mass cut to help mitigate redshift-dependent
mass/luminosity effects. One question I had about that was the
robustness of the masses being used -- sources at higher-z will
generally have fewer bands that can be used by the SED fitting codes, so
mass measurements may be more uncertain, since there may be fewer
constraints on age/reddening degeneracies. Ie, from redshift 0 to 1.2,
the 4000A break moves all the way up to almost 9000A, so the quality of
SED fits would gradually deterioriate over this interval, potentially
impacting the reliability of the masses in a systematic way towards
higher z. There might possibly be tests that could be done to quantify
this, but if they're too extensive then the best might just be to
discuss this as a possible concern, and also perhaps add a statement
about how much or how little impact you think it might have.

Then in section 3.2, also related to redshift, it's nice to see the
demonstration of measured projected separations in physical units as a
function of redshift, and shown in fig 6. Here I was wondering about the
10kpc value, as follows -- since this value works successfully all the
way to z=1.2, while at low-z there seems to be an apparent loss of
secondary galaxies because of the cutouts being too small, is there some
way to homogenize the sample further at this point? Eg, exclude galaxies
with separations less than 10kpc since they might not be detectable as
pairs all the way to z=1.2, and perhaps also exclude galaxies with
separations large enough to be missed as pairs at low z. This seemed
like a redshift-dependent bias that would be worth discussing further,
eg you could do the experiment of excluding these galaxies, and check
whether or not your conclusions are significantly impacted, and report
the results in this section.

Finally, in section 2.2, paragraph 1, after "F814W filter" could you add
please "(Koekemoer et al. 2007)" where the bibtex code for the citation
is here:

https://eur02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fui.adsabs.harvard.edu%2Fabs%2F2007ApJS..172..196K%2Fexportcitation&data=05%7C02%7Coryan%40live.lancs.ac.uk%7C774953c57cbe449fab2808dc2f48fdf5%7C9c9bcd11977a4e9ca9a0bc734090164a%7C0%7C0%7C638437237768494724%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=2uc31XY6CTuPEmoT%2FZxxAfyDFdTg%2FTkf2eP4kAdibLw%3D&reserved=0

Also at the end of the caption to Figure 1, after "F814W filter" would
you be able to add the same citation there as well please?


Again, I think this paper looks excellent overall, thanks for all the
great work on it, and I look forward to seeing the next draft and
hearing further from you,

best regards,
Anton